A block cipher is any one where we are encrypting a fixed size block of plaintext.

## DES cipher
The key for DES is 56 bits. It was proposed to NIST in the 70s and was used until the 2000s.
### The Cipher
The input text (64b) is split into $L_{0}$ and $R_{0}$ each 32 bits.
The key is split into $16$ round keys each of $48$ bits.
$R_{0}$ is run through an encryption function $f$, $\oplus$ with $L_{0}$, then their places are switched and we repeat this step 16 times.
#### f
$f$ is given:
$$
f(K,R)=P(S(\oplus  E(R)))
$$
Where $E$ copies the 32 bit string into a 48 bit string, repeating some according to some specification.
Then the key can be XORed with $E(R)$.
$S$ splits the key into 8 blocks of 4 bits (Non-linearly!)
$P$ permutes these blocks

Decryption can be performed by encrypting with keys in the reverse order.
### Attack
Adversary sends blocks  $x_{1},x_{2},\dots$ and receives $y_{1},y_2,\dots$ where $y_{1}$ is returned after encrypting $x_{1}$ through DES.
Compare this to $x_{1}$ returning $y_i$ randomly. If the block cipher is secure, the adversary should not be able to tell random $y_i$ versus deterministic.
## AES cipher
AES begins with a 4x4 matrix over $\mathbb{F}_{128}$. There are 10 keys generated by $K\in\mathcal{K}$.
### Encryption
- First is SBox subsitution. Each entry of the matrix is mapped with the convention $b^{-1}=0$;
$$
Ab^{-1}+c
$$
	Where $a$ is a byte matrix ($b^{-1}$ is viewed as a column vector), and $c$ is a byte column vector.
- Shift rows down, so row $3$ becomes row $0$.
- Mix columns, so that we multiply each column by an invertible byte matrix $M$. Note that this step is skipped on the final tenth round.
- Add Roundkey
### Decryption
Like AES, decryption in AES is simply encryption, with keys used in the reverse order.