---
aliases:
  - Euclidean Space
  - Euclidean Topology
  - Open Ball
  - Closed Ball
---
## Standard 2-Norm in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$
The Euclidean norm in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$ is given by:
$$
\| \vec{x} \|=\sqrt{ \sum\limits_{i=1}^{n}|x_n|^{2} }
$$
For a vector $\vec{x}=\begin{bmatrix} x_{1}\dots x_n\end{bmatrix}$. In fact, the absolute value on $x_i$ is superfluous, however this allows an analogous definition in $\mathbb{C}^{n}$.
### Other norms on $\mathbb{R}^{n}$
- $\| x \|_1=\sum\limits_{j=1}^{n}|x_j|$
- $\| x \|_\infty=\max\{ |x_{1}|,\dots,|x_n|\}$
- $\| x \|_p=\sqrt[p]{  \sum\limits_{j=1}^{n}|x_j|^{p}}$, The [[p-norm]]
### Norm equivalence
For any two norms $\varphi_{1},\varphi_2$ on $\mathbb{R}^{n}$, there exists constants bounding one by the other.
$$
c_{1}\varphi_{1}(x)\leq\varphi_{2}(x)\leq c_{2}\varphi_{1}(x)
$$
## Open Balls
An open ball in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$ is given by $B_r(\vec{x})=\{ \vec{y}\in\mathbb{R}^{n}:\| \vec{x}-\vec{y} \|<r \}$
## Open Sets
Open sets in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$ are generated by the basis $B=\{ B_r(p):r\in\mathbb{R},p\in\mathbb{R}^{n} \}$ of all open balls in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$. In other words, any open set in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$ is the union of open balls in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$.
Or, for any $c\in U$, there is some $r\in\mathbb{R}$ such that $B_r(p)\subseteq U$.
### Properties
- $\varnothing,\mathbb{R}^{n}$ are open
- If $A_i$ are open, then $\bigcup_i A$ is open. (Any union of open sets is open)
- If $A_{1},\dots,A_n$ is open, then $\bigcap_{i=1}^{n} A_i$ is open. (Finite unions of open sets are open)
- For any $a,b\in\mathbb{R}^{n},$ there exist $V,W$ two open sets in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$ so that $a\in V,b\in W$ so that $V\cap W=\varnothing$.
### Neighborhood
A neighborhood of a point $a\in\mathbb{R}^{n}$ is an open subset $A\subseteq \mathbb{R}^{n}$ containing $a$.
### Interior
A point $a\in\mathbb{R}^{n}$ is called an interior point of $A$ if $A$ is a neighborhood of $A$.
The interior of $A$ is the set of all interior points of $A$, denoted $A^{\circ}$
- If $A\subseteq \mathbb{R}^{n}$, then $A^{\circ}$ is the largest open set contained in $A$.
- If $A\subseteq B\subseteq \mathbb{R}^{n}$, then $A^{\circ}\subseteq B^{\circ}$.
- If $A,B\subseteq \mathbb{R}$, then $(A\cap B)^{\circ}=A^{\circ}\cap B^{\circ}$.
$A^{\circ}$ is closed in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$
## Closed Balls
A closed ball in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$ is given by $\overline{B_r}(\vec{x})=\{ \vec{y}\in\mathbb{R}^{n}:\| \vec{x}-\vec{y} \|\leq r \}$. In fact this is the closure of an open ball.
## Closed Sets
As usual in [[Topology]], closed sets are those which have an open complement; $C^{c}=\mathbb{R}^{n}\setminus C$ is open. Equivalently, we can let closed sets be generated by the union of closed balls.
### Properties 
- $\varnothing,\mathbb{R}^{n}$ are closed
- If $A_\alpha$ are closed, then $\bigcap_\alpha A_\alpha$ is closed. (Any union of closed sets is closed)
- If $A_{1},\dots,A_n$ is closed, then $\bigcup_{i=1}^{n} A_i$ is closed. (Finite unions of closed sets are closed)
### Cluster point
Let $A\subseteq \mathbb{R}^{n}$. If every neighborhood $U$ of $a$ has $U\cap A\neq\varnothing$, then $a$ is a cluster point of $A$. (Note that this includes isolated points).
### Limit point
A limit point of $A\subseteq \mathbb{R}$ is a cluster point which is not isolated.
### Closure
The closure of a set $A$ is the union of $A$ and the set of all its limit points. 
Equivalently, $\bar{A}$ is the set of all cluster points of $A$.
- $\bar{A}$ is a closed set in $\mathbb{R}^{n}$.
- If $\bar{A}$ is closed, then $A=\bar{A}$
### Exterior Point
$a$ is an exterior point of a set $A\subseteq \mathbb{R}^{n}$ if $a\not\in \bar{A}$.
Equivalently, $a$ is an exterior point of $A$ if $a$ is interior to $\mathbb{R}^{n}\setminus A$.
## Spheres
We can define the sphere $S_r(x)=\overline{B_r}(x)\setminus B_r(x)=\{ y\in\mathbb{R}^{n}|\| y-x \|=r \}$, the boundary of a closed ball.
