---
aliases:
  - Group
  - Subgroup
  - Subgroups
tags:
  - Algebra
---
A Group $(G,\circ)$ is a [[Set]] $G$ and a [[Binary Operation]] $\circ$ that satisfies the following conditions.

For some $a,b,c\in G$ 
- $G$ is closed. That is, $\forall a,b\in G, a\circ b\in G$
- Composition is [[Associative]]. That is, $(a\circ b)\circ c = a\circ (b\circ c)$
- There is a unique Identity Element $e$ so that $a\circ e = a=e\circ a$.
- There is a unique inverse element $a^{-1}$ for each element so that $a^{-1} \circ a =e=a\circ a^{-1}$.
These are called the Group Axioms.

The order of a group is simply the size of the set $G$.
## Abelian Group
Groups where $a\circ b = b\circ a$ are called Commutative/Abelian Groups.
## Subgroups
A subgroup of a group $G$ is a subset $H\subset G$ so that when $H$ is considered with the same operation as $G$, it is still a group.
to check if some $H\subseteq G$ is a subgroup of $g$, it is sufficient to check:
- $e_G\in H$
- If $a,b\in H$, then $(ab)^{-1}\in H$
### Finite Subgroup
Let $G$ be a finite group, and let $H$ be a non-empty subset of $G$.
$H$ is a subset of $G$ if and only if $H$ is closed under the operation.
### Conjugate subgroup
Let $H$ be a subgroup of $G$, $g\in G$.
Define
$$gHg^{-1}=\{ ghg^{-1}:h\in H \}$$
Then $gHg^{-1}$ is a subgroup, called a conjugate subgroup of $H$. If $G$ is abelian, $G=H$
### Normal Subgroups
If, $\forall g\in G, gHg^{-1}=H$, we call $H$ a normal subgroup. if $G$ is abelian, any subgroup is normal.
### Center of a group
The center of a group is denoted and defined as:
$$Z(G)=\{ z\in G: zg=gz\forall g\in\mathbb{Z}\}$$
Or the set of all elements in $G$ which commute with every element in $G$.
This is in fact a normal subgroup of $G$.
#### Centralizer of an element
For $a\in G$, the centralizer of $a$ is denoted and defined by:
$$C(a)=\{ g\in G: ga=ag \}$$
## Cyclic Groups
A Cyclic group is one that depends on a single element $g\in G$. Every element of a cyclic group can be written as $e\circ g^k, k\in\mathbb{Z}$. $g$ is considered the *generator* element. 
A cyclic subgroup of $G$ where $a$ is the generator is notated $\langle a\rangle$ 
$$\langle a\rangle = \{a^k:k\in\mathbb{Z}\}$$
### Multiple Generators:
If $X$ is a set:
$$\left< X \right> =\{ x_{1}^{m_{1}}x_{2}^{m_{2}}\dots x_n^{m_n}: x_i\in X, m_i \in\mathbb{Z}, n>0 \}$$
### Properties
- If $G$ is a finite cyclic group generated by $g$, then $o(g)=|G|$. 
        As well, if there is an element $a$ that has $o(a)=|G|$, then $G= \langle a\rangle$.
- Cyclic groups are abelian.
- Any subgroup of a cyclic group is also cyclic.
## Order
### Of a group
The order of a group is notated $|G|$ and is the number of elements in the group.
### Of an element
$o(a)$ or the order of an element $a\in G$ for some finite group $G$ is defined as the least positive integer $k$ so that $a^{k}=e$. 
If we cannot find a nonzero $k$ which satisifies this, we say that $a$ has infinite order ($o(a)=\infty$).
The order of an element divides the order of the group. This result can be shown with [[Lagrange's Theorem]].
### Fundamental theorem of Finite cyclic groups
Let $G=\left< g \right>$ be a cyclic group and $o(g)=n$.
1. If $H$ is a subgroup of $G$ then $H=\left< g^{d} \right>$ for some $d|n$. In fact, $|H|\big| |G|$
2. Conversely, if $k|n$, there exists a unique subgroup $H$ of order $k$.
### Finding Generators
Let $G=\left< g \right>$, and $o(g)=n$. Then $G=\left< g^{k} \right>\iff \gcd(k,n)=1$. So powers of a generator that are coprime with the order of that generator, will also generate the group.
#### Properties 
(for $g\in$ some group $G$)
- $o(g)=o(g^{-1})$
- Let $o(g)=m$. $g^{n}=e\iff m|n$.
- Let $o(g)=m$. If $g^{n}=g^{k}$, then $n \equiv k\pmod{m}$.
- $\left< g\right> =\left< g^{\gcd(n,k)} \right>$ if $o(g)=n$
- Every subgroup of a cyclic group is cyclic.
- Any Group of prime order is cyclic.