---
aliases:
  - Ideal
  - Prime Ideal
  - Prime Ideals
---
$I$ is an ideal for a [[Rings|Ring]] $R$ if:
- $(I,+)$ is a subgroup of $(R,+)$.
- $\forall a \in I,r \in R$, both $ra, ar \in I$ (not necessarily equal)
For the sake of math 315, we suppose $R$ is commutative.
Ideals play the role analogous to [[Normal Subgroups]] in group theory.
### Left and Right ideals
If our second property only holds for left, or right multiplication, we call $I$ a left or right ideal respectively.
### Examples
- Take $\sigma:R\to S$, a homomorphism for [[Rings]] $R,S$. $\ker\sigma$ is an ideal of $R$.
- $R$ itself is an ideal, and $\{ 0 \}$ is an ideal.
- $(n\mathbb{Z},+,\cdot)$ is an ideal of $(\mathbb{Z},+,\cdot)$
## Prime Ideals
An ideal $P$ of a commutative ring $R$ is said to be a prime ideal if:
- $P\neq R$
- If $ab\in P$, then $a\in P$ or $b\in P$.
### Examples
- $n\mathbb{Z}$ is a prime ideal $\iff$ $n$ is a prime number.
- $\{ 0 \}$ is a prime ideal $\iff$ $R$ is an [[Domain (Algebra)|Integral Domain]].
### Theorem
$P$ is a prime ideal of $R$ $\iff R/P$ is an integral domain.
## Maximal Ideals
A ideal $M$ of $R$ is said to be maximal, if 
- $M\neq R$
- If $A$ is another ideal of $R$ so that $M\subseteq A\subseteq R$ then $A=M$ or $A=R$.
Intuitively, $M$ is the largest ideal of $R$ not equal to $R$.
### Theorem
- $M$ is a maximal ideal $\iff$ $R /M$ is a field.
    - Cor: Every maximal ideal is a prime ideal (in a comm. setting)
- If $1_R\in I$, then $I=R$, 
- If $u$, a unit is in $I$, then $1_R\in I$ and $I=R$
- $F$ is a [[Fields|Field]] $\iff$ the only ideals of $F$ are $\{ 0 \},F$.
## Principal Ideals
A principal ideal is one generated by a single element;
$$\left< a \right> =Ra=\{ ra:r\in R \}$$
